README.md, before:

# IVI Ecosystem

A Framework for a Self-Governing, Self-Expanding, Meaning-Driven Intelligence & Community Ecosystem.

[![Python Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.8+-blue.svg)](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

## Overview

This repository contains a Python implementation of **Intangibly Verified Information (IVI)** concepts. The `src/ivi` package provides utility modules demonstrating:

- **Contextual Traceability**: Track the origin and evolution of ideas
- **Usefulness Verification**: Measure the impact and utility of information
- **Belief Alignment**: Align information with belief systems
- **Social Verification**: Establish trust through community validation
- **Structural Redundancy**: Ensure robustness through pattern repetition
- **Philosophical Heuristics**: Apply philosophical principles to information verification
- **Decentralized Scoring**: Enable distributed, AI-assisted scoring mechanisms

## Installation

1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/scarryhott/IVI-Ecosystem-Whitepaper.git
   cd IVI-Ecosystem-Whitepaper
   ```

2. Create and activate a virtual environment (recommended):
   ```bash
   python -m venv venv
   source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows use `venv\Scripts\activate`
   ```

3. Install the package in development mode:
   ```bash
   pip install -e .[test]
   ```

## Quick Start

Run the demo script to see the modules in action:

```bash
python -m ivi.demo
```

## SlearnMap and LearningNode

`SlearnMap` organizes lessons as token-gated nodes. Each `LearningNode`
defines a lesson and the IVI tokens required to unlock it. The
`IVIEcosystem` automatically provisions a `SlearnMap` so you can attach
nodes and track completion.

Example usage:

```python
from ivi import IVIEcosystem, LearningNode

eco = IVIEcosystem()
eco.add_learning_node(LearningNode(node_id="intro", required_tokens=0))
eco.add_interaction("idea", user="bob", tags=["note"], description="start")
available = eco.learning_map.available_nodes("bob")  # ["intro"]
eco.complete_lesson("bob", "intro")
```

## Development

To run the test suite:

```bash
pytest
```

## Project Structure

```
.
├── src/
│   └── ivi/                    # Main package
│       ├── __init__.py         # Package exports
│       ├── traceability.py     # Idea tracing and provenance
│       ├── usefulness.py       # Usefulness verification
│       ├── belief_alignment.py # Belief system integration
│       ├── social_verification.py # Community validation
│       ├── redundancy.py       # Pattern integrity
│       ├── philosophical_heuristics.py # Philosophical metrics
│       └── decentralized_scoring.py # Distributed scoring
├── tests/                      # Test suite
├── pyproject.toml              # Project metadata and dependencies
└── README.md                   # This file
```

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please see [CONTRIBUTIONS.md](CONTRIBUTIONS.md) for guidelines.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

Commit message:

Add real-time web dashboard with WebSocket support

README.md, after:

# IVI Ecosystem

A Framework for a Self-Governing, Self-Expanding, Meaning-Driven Intelligence & Community Ecosystem.

[![Python Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.8+-blue.svg)](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

## Overview

This repository contains a Python implementation of **Intangibly Verified Information (IVI)** concepts. The `src/ivi` package provides utility modules demonstrating:

- **Contextual Traceability**: Track the origin and evolution of ideas
- **Usefulness Verification**: Measure the impact and utility of information
- **Belief Alignment**: Align information with belief systems
- **Social Verification**: Establish trust through community validation
- **Structural Redundancy**: Ensure robustness through pattern repetition
- **Philosophical Heuristics**: Apply philosophical principles to information verification
- **Decentralized Scoring**: Enable distributed, AI-assisted scoring mechanisms

## Installation

1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/scarryhott/IVI-Ecosystem-Whitepaper.git
   cd IVI-Ecosystem-Whitepaper
   ```

2. Create and activate a virtual environment (recommended):
   ```bash
   python -m venv venv
   source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows use `venv\Scripts\activate`
   ```

3. Install the package in development mode:
   ```bash
   pip install -e .[test]
   ```

## Quick Start

Run the demo script to see the modules in action:

```bash
python -m ivi.demo
```

## SlearnMap and LearningNode

`SlearnMap` organizes lessons as token-gated nodes. Each `LearningNode`
defines a lesson and the IVI tokens required to unlock it. The
`IVIEcosystem` automatically provisions a `SlearnMap` so you can attach
nodes and track completion.

Example usage:

```python
from ivi import IVIEcosystem, LearningNode

eco = IVIEcosystem()
eco.add_learning_node(LearningNode(node_id="intro", required_tokens=0))
eco.add_interaction("idea", user="bob", tags=["note"], description="start")
available = eco.learning_map.available_nodes("bob")  # ["intro"]
eco.complete_lesson("bob", "intro")
```

## Development

To run the test suite:

```bash
pytest
```

## Project Structure

```
.
├── src/
│   └── ivi/                    # Main package
│       ├── __init__.py         # Package exports
│       ├── traceability.py     # Idea tracing and provenance
│       ├── usefulness.py       # Usefulness verification
│       ├── belief_alignment.py # Belief system integration
│       ├── social_verification.py # Community validation
│       ├── redundancy.py       # Pattern integrity
│       ├── philosophical_heuristics.py # Philosophical metrics
│       └── decentralized_scoring.py # Distributed scoring
├── tests/                      # Test suite
├── pyproject.toml              # Project metadata and dependencies
└── README.md                   # This file
```

## Real-Time Dashboard

The optional `ivi.web` module exposes a FastAPI application that stores
interactions in an SQLite database and streams updates via WebSocket.
Launch the server with:

```bash
uvicorn ivi.web:app --reload
```

Then visit `/dashboard` to see a live feed of interactions.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please see [CONTRIBUTIONS.md](CONTRIBUTIONS.md) for guidelines.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.
